#Sending a form to an HTTP server (POST)
There are two primary functions for sending data to a server formatted as a HTML form. If you are migrating over from the WWW system, see [Using WWWForm](#UsingWWWForm), below.

## Using IMultipartFormSection
To provide greater control over how you specify your form data, the ``UnityWebRequest`` system contains a user-implementable ``IMultipartFormSection`` interface. For standard applications, Unity also provides default implementations for data and file sections: ``MultipartFormDataSection`` and ``MultipartFormFileSection``.

An overload of ``UnityWebRequest.POST`` accepts, as a second parameter, a List argument, whose members must all be ``IMultipartFormSections``. The function signature is:

````
WebRequest.Post(string url, List<IMultipartFormSection> formSections);
````

###Details

* This function creates a `UnityWebRequest` and sets the target URL to the first string parameter. It also sets the Content-Type header of the `UnityWebRequest` appropriately for the form data specified in the list of `IMultipartFormSection` objects.
* This function, by default, attaches a `DownloadHandlerBuffer` to the `UnityWebRequest`. This is for convenience - you can use this to check your server's replies.
* Similar to the `WWWForm POST` function, this HLAPI function calls each supplied `IMultipartFormSection` in turn and formats them into a standard multipart form as specified in RFC 2616.
* The preformatted form data is stored in a standard `UploadHandlerRaw` object, which is then attached to the `UnityWebRequest`. As a result, changes to the `IMultipartFormSection` objects performed after the `UnityWebRequest.POST` call are not reflected in the data sent to the server.

###Example

````
using UnityEngine;
using System.Collections;
using Unity.Networking;
 
class MyBehavior: MonoBehaviour {
    void Start() {
        StartCoroutine(Upload());
    }
 
    IEnumerator Upload() {
        List<IMultipartFormSection> formData = new List<IMultipartFormSection>();
        formData.Add( new MultipartFormDataSection("field1=foo&field2=bar") );
        formData.Add( new MultipartFormFileSection("my file data", "myfile.txt") );

        UnityWebRequest www = UnityWebRequest.Post("http://www.my-server.com/myform", formData);
        yield return www.Send();
 
        if(www.isError) {
            Debug.Log(www.error);
        }
        else {
            Debug.Log("Form upload complete!");
        }
    }
}
````

<a name="UsingWWWForm"></a>
##Using WWWForm (Legacy function)

To help migrate from the WWW system, the UnityWebRequest system permits you to use the old WWWForm object to provide form data.

In this case, the function signature is:

````
WebRequest.Post(string url, WWWForm formData);
````

###Details

* This function creates a new `UnityWebRequest` and sets the target URL to the first string argument's value. It also reads any custom headers generated by the `WWWForm` argument (such as Content-Type) and copies them into the `UnityWebRequest`.
* This function, by default, attaches a `DownloadHandlerBuffer` to the `UnityWebRequest`. This is for convenience - you can use this to check your server's replies.
* This function reads the raw data generated by the `WWWForm object` and buffers it in an `UploadHandlerRaw` object, which is attached to the `UnityWebRequest`. Therefore, changes to the `WWWForm` object after calling `UnityWebRequest.POST` do not alter the contents of the `UnityWebRequest`.

###Example

````
using UnityEngine;
using System.Collections;
 
class MyBehavior: public MonoBehaviour {
    void Start() {
        StartCoroutine(Upload());
    }
 
    IEnumerator Upload() {
        WWWForm form = new WWWForm();
        form.AddField("myField", "myData");
 
        UnityWebRequest www = UnityWebRequest.Post("http://www.my-server.com/myform", form);
        yield return www.Send();
 
        if(www.isError) {
            Debug.Log(www.error);
        }
        else {
            Debug.Log("Form upload complete!");
        }
    }
}
````
